Update fip-0059.md (#700)
filecoin-project/FIPs: FIPS/fip-0059.md

    - `RegisteredSealProof_SynthStackedDrg32GiBV1`
    - `RegisteredSealProof_SynthStackedDrg64GiBV1`
- The allowable delay of the new proof types is the same as the StackedDRG proof types V1.1;
- No changes in `PreCommitSector` and `ProveCommitSector` methods;

> - `ProveCommitSector` passes the new prove type to the proof verification syscall;

Reviewer: please change "new prove type" in "new proof type"
@cryptonemo

### Proof changes

- Add two new proof types to the list of proof types that can be used when pre-committing a new sector
    - `RegisteredSealProof::FeatureSynthStackedDrgWindow32GiBV1_2`
    - `RegisteredSealProof::FeatureSynthStackedDrgWindow64GiBV1_2`
- Related constants
    - `N_syn` set to $2^{18}$;

>     - `N_verified` set to 176 (same as current *N_porep_challenges/k*) ;

Reviewer: please, change *N_porep_challenges/k* in *N_porep_challenges*
@cryptonemo

## Rationale

Synthetic PoRep is a PoRep optimization which has basically no downside with respect to the status. Indeed, it would allow for more than 90% storage cost savings between PreCommit and ProveCommit. Additionally, we would have

- No impact on the current on-chain flow,
- No need of new Trusted Setup,
- No proving overhead on the StorageProvider side,
- No impact on PoRep security.

> Note that in the design of Synthetic PoRep we considered the case of increasing the number of PoRep challenges (`N_verified`) in order to be able to have higher storage saving thanks to a reduced number of synthetic challenges (`N_syn` smaller). However since this requires a new trusted setup and more proving, we decided to go with the proposed parameters that do not change the number of PoRep challenges and still allows significant saving.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that in the design of Synthetic PoRep we considered the case of increasing the number of PoRep challenges (`N_verified`) in order to be able to have higher storage saving thanks to a reduced number of synthetic challenges (`N_syn` smaller). However since this requires a new trusted setup and more proving, we decided to go with the proposed parameters that do not change the number of PoRep challenges and still allows significant saving.
```

> An alternative design we considered to reduce the storage between PreCommit and ProveCommit is NI-PoRep (see for example discussion https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/discussions/603 ). NI-PoRep allows to get a 100% storage cost saving and has other benefits (for example, removing the need of PreCommitDeposit) but has a ~8.5x proving overahed that we consider prohibitive for now. 

Reviewer: please, change "~8.5x proving overahed" in "~8.5x proving overhead"
@cryptonemo

> An alternative design we considered to reduce the storage between PreCommit and ProveCommit is NI-PoRep (see for example discussion https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/discussions/603 ). NI-PoRep allows to get a 100% storage cost saving and has other benefits (for example, removing the need of PreCommitDeposit) but has a ~8.5x proving overahed that we consider prohibitive for now. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An alternative design we considered to reduce the storage between PreCommit and ProveCommit is NI-PoRep (see for example discussion https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/discussions/603 ). NI-PoRep allows to get a 100% storage cost saving and has other benefits (for example, removing the need of PreCommitDeposit) but has a ~8.5x proving overhead that we consider prohibitive for now. 
```

> An alternative design we considered to reduce the storage between PreCommit and ProveCommit is NI-PoRep (see for example discussion https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/discussions/603 ). NI-PoRep allows to get a 100% storage cost saving and has other benefits (for example, removing the need of PreCommitDeposit) but has a ~8.5x proving overhead that we consider prohibitive for now. 

Reviewer 2: Spell out "non-interactive PoRep", at least the first time.

> Not that implementing Synthetich PoRep now does not prevent us to implement NI-PoRep in the future, once we have solved/reduced the proving overhead problem.

Reviewer: Note that implementing Synthetich PoRep now does not prevent us from implementing NI-PoRep in the future, once we have solved/reduced the proving overhead problem.
```suggestion
Not that implementing Synthetich PoRep now does not prevent us to implement NI-PoRep in the future, once we have solved/reduced the proving overhead problem.
```
```suggestion
Not that implementing Synthetich PoRep now does not prevent us to implement NI-PoRep in the future, once we have solved/reduced the proving overhead problem.
```
```suggestion
Not that implementing Synthetich PoRep now does not prevent us to implement NI-PoRep in the future, once we have solved/reduced the proving overhead problem.
```

> Not that implementing Synthetich PoRep now does not prevent us to implement NI-PoRep in the future, once we have solved/reduced the proving overhead problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that implementing Synthetic PoRep now does not prevent us from implementing NI-PoRep in the future, once we have solved/reduced the proving overhead problem.
```

## Security Considerations

> In the current PoRep protocol if 4% or more of nodes in a layer are wrongly encoded by the SP, then the ProveCommit step, where 176 prandom nodes are checked, will fail with large probability (larger than $1-2^{10}$).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the current PoRep protocol if 4% or more of nodes in a layer are wrongly encoded by the SP, then the ProveCommit step, where 176 random nodes are checked, will fail with large probability (larger than $1-2^{10}$).
```

In the new protocol, the SP first samples a set of `N_syn` positions and then proceeds to sample the 176 random nodes from there. In order to be able to keep the same security as before, we need that the distribution of errors in the synthetic challenge set is as close as possible to the original distribution of errors in the layer. However the adversary can try different sets to get one where the fraction of wrongly encoded nodes is smaller than 4%. Say for example that adversary wants to pass with probability $2^{-9}$, then he needs a set of synthetic challenges where at least a fraction $q$ are goods (correctly encoded) with $q$ = 0.9651 ($q^{176} = 2^{-9)}$).

> We can show that if `N_syn` is large enough, then this is not possible in practice. More in details: the probability that the number of correctly encoded nodes in the sythetic set is large or equal to $q$`N_syn` is given by the bynomial probabilty:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can show that if `N_syn` is large enough, then this is not possible in practice. More in details: the probability that the number of correctly encoded nodes in the synthetic set is large or equal to $q$`N_syn` is given by the binomial probability:
```

$$
P = \sum_{qN_{syn}}^{N_{syn}} \binom{N_{syn}}{i}p^i (1-p)^{N_{syn}-i} \text{ with } p ≤ 0.96
$$

> and with `N_syn` = $2^18$, we have that $P < 2^{-138}$. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and with `N_syn` = $2^{18}$, we have that $P < 2^{-138}$. 
```
